
CBHD - Hard disk driver for all Atari-compatible with SCSI-Driver

½ Claus Brod, Steffen Engel 1996

INTRODUCTION

  CBHD is a hard disk driver, known from the book 'Scheibenkleister' by 
  Claus Brod.

  From version 4.50 CBHD is freeware, meaning that all files may be copied
  unchanged and distributed free of charge.

  All rights to CBHD and the associated source texts belong to the authors.

  The essential component is the SCSI-driver in CBHD/SCSIDRV.PRG and 
  SCSI.RAM. 

  Pleaser be sure to read the documentation for the driver (CBHD.TXT, 
  CBHD.HYP, or translate the UDO sources in a format of your choice)


WARNING

  Owners of an Atari Falcon should definitely read the text about the Falcon
  in the documentation. Some Falcons, due to a hardware error, can produce
  write errors when accessing SCSI devices. In particular, very fast hard
  disc drivers (like CBHD) can provoke this problem.

  ALIA 

  Owners of an ALIA have to switch on the ALIA-recognition with CBHDCONF!

MAGICMAC

  Under MagicMac you can let CBHD0 manage the ACSI-compatible hard drives.
  Please pay attention to the 'MagicMac' chapter in the CBHD documentation.

LIABILITY

  The software was programmed and tested with the greatest care.

  We, Steffen Engel and Claus Brod, can accept no liability for direct or 
  indirect damage, whether financial, material or any other type that have 
  been caused by using programs included in this archive or distribution.
  The same applies to the English translators, Roger Cain and Peter West.

  CBHD was programmed and tested with the greatest care, though we can not  
  offer any guarantee that CBHD is free of faults.

  In particular when using write-caches of any kind we disclaim all 
  liability. Write-caches are basically extraordinary difficult to realise
  under TOS. Safe write-caches on the Atari are also unknown.

  Error desscriptions, suggestions and wishes for further development of 
  CBHD will be accepted gladly.


Steffen Engel, Braunschweig, December 1996
